hey guys even by my standards this is an
unusually casual broadcast just on you
now i'm eating strawberries I just got
today this is really the start of
strawberry season here in kunming the
changing the season so for us that's
winter nude beautiful brilliantly red
strawberries and I'm just sitting and
kicking it with whoever happens to be
online I'm having a dinner of nothing
but strawberries and soy milk before I
go back to the gym I already wanted the
gym once day when I want to go back I
want to lift heavy this evening so I'm
hoping the strawberries hoping this this
is my pre-workout meal let's see how
that goes maybe it'll go horribly wrong
maybe I'll be barfing up strawberries
after lifting a hundred kilograms but
hey life life's a contact sport people
play to win um look I had a question
during my last broadcast that didn't get
to answer mmm and for once I'm holding
strawberries instead holding the
microphone I had a question about what I
felt the Humane party was doing wrong so
the Humane party if you haven't heard of
it is a very is a party that very
recently came to prominence in the
United States of America in as much as
they've achieved any prominence or
notoriety and they do also refer to
themselves sometimes as the vegan party
because they do require all of their
members to be vegan so in a very obvious
sense they are a vegan party they are a
party entirely oh sorry I should they
all know that all the supporters but all
their candidates anyone to be a party
member official or candidate has to be
vegan so they're obviously wrapping the
vegan cause to a significant extent and
I commented in passing yesterday when I
got a skosh it will look I don't really
want to get into it but I think they're
approaching the issue 180 degrees wrong
there they've got the cart before the
horse they've got things exactly
backwards however you want to put it um
and the guy who asking the questions oh
that's a really interesting answer I
want to hear more and yesterday I didn't
really want to get into it I don't think
other things do a nothing's talk about
so I didn't say anything further at the
time look building constituency
what does it mean to you building
credibility what does it mean to you you
got to be somebody somewhere before you
can be anybody everywhere you can build
constituency by doing very humble work
at City Hall you can build constituency
by owning the corner store in a small
town you know you don't need to be
famous you don't need to be a Donald
Trump like figure to run for president
at States but it helps it helps to be a
former reality TV star etc etc um many
years ago when I was advising the Green
Party of Canada and what they should do
to build credibility and build
constituency and this was back when the
internet was was relatively weak medium
I was really saying them you need to
have an on paper magazine that shows
that you are ochre all that you're up to
date with your you're in the know about
what's going on in the recent scientific
breakthroughs now today on the internet
I mean the internet existed then but it
was in a more crude nascent state I'm
talking about the kind of information
that vegan gains so casually shows he
knows that he sharp on he's aware of
what's going on in peer-reviewed
literature on the most recent health
breakthroughs you need to have a
magazine that shows you're aware of
recent protests recent legal challenges
in Europe in New Zealand so you know
whether it's pertaining to animal rights
or other ecological rights ecological
legal battles ecological disasters you
need to have a magazine that shows you
have a staff of people with names and
faces who know what's up who knows
what's going on and this is totally
alien to them because the keeping it all
the way real in case you think I'm not
already keeping all the way real on this
channel most of those people in the
Green Party of Canada at that time they
were basically communists they were X
communists or crypto communist and they
felt that their legitimacy didn't come
from being well informed or up to date
you know in the way that again vegan get
gains just seems up-to-date and
well-informed he checks the articles he
tells you about the science is coming
they felt that their legitimacy
came from adherence to a simple
ideological doctrine and insisting that
their doctrine was right and that they
were passionate about it and anyone who
questioned them was wrong because that's
the way communism works especially
that's the way communism works in a
country like Canada obviously communism
is somewhat different if you're from
Estonia you know but in Canada the
United States or England that really is
the way communists approach legitimacy
in an electoral forum they think that a
simple ideological statement of their
superiority of why they're right and the
other people are wrong that that's how
you build your credibility and it's not
you would be better off building
credibility you know I can use examples
that mention of the videos to small
community struggles a struggle at one
prison to improve prison conditions a
struggle at one sewage treatment plant
to make the water drinkable or safe to
swim in in one River you know a one like
when Canada we have a lot of these
examples a struggle at one you know
indian reservation or First Nations
reservation whatever want to say Oh in
the remote countryside where you
struggle and say look the government has
poisoned these people's drinking water
drinking water up ought to be up to
these standards environmental
regulations autograph these standards or
you pick an example we have a lot of
these in Canada too with the government
has sold out its old standards you know
there were stands that were supposed to
be enforced for a pulp and paper company
for some for-profit corporation but the
government was throwing those standards
that cuz you know the business makes
money whatever situation is any of those
little struggles just one of them build
constituency build credibility and show
that you have currency that your current
that you're into what's going on now so
again whatever 15 years ago I was
talking about that being a magazine
still today look within Canada if we're
talking about Canada publishing a
magazine on paper and sending it to your
patron sending it to people who donate
money you still is worth well because
they're giving you money so they ought
to have something they can touch and
feel if you send them flowers in the
mail that's great too but obviously that
content to the internet and YouTube
obviously there are other platforms
today that would really reshape that
that
ice those kind of advice I was giving to
the Green Party so same them don't think
of this as a struggle every four years
in Canada it can be five years our
elections scheduled was actually much
more flexible but it wait whether you
talk about four years favors this is not
a struggle that's linked to the election
cycle you're talking about a struggle
over 50 years where you go from being a
joke a small and despised minority party
to being respected and esteemed and one
of the ways you can do that again just
coming back to vegan gains one of the
ways you can do that is actually through
science science is open everybody and
you know it's a meritocracy in some ways
your donors your supporters will
appreciate the hell out of it if you
took the time to do again what vegan the
games does what a lot of other people do
and you say hey look you know there's
this controversy maybe the controversy
is about whether or not it's healthy to
eat eggs but maybe the controversy is
about whether or not it's safe to drink
the water in Lake Ontario well it could
be any lake episode I'm just mentioning
this as one example micelle you know
some people think the water is not safe
during some people think this let's sit
down and look at the science you yet you
took the time do that you publish that
article people from across the political
spectrum will respect you you're
building constituencies your building
credibility you're building trust in a
way that communists never do the
Communists never think of because one of
the fundamental tenets of communism is
class struggle and class struggle is not
class education class struggle is not
class debate class struggle is not you
know class science research okay class
struggle is class war just like I wrote
about in my essay on nickel Davis gonna
more class war means the commies go to
the prison break the criminals out of
the prison recruit them into the army
start going house-to-house piratical
eluding with the bourgeoisie in the
middle class have murdering people
lynching people perceive it's brutal
it's ugly
and I'm sick to death of hearing people
make excuses for communism who never
took the time to read any one historical
example of what communism really means
or even where the world comes I digress
okay so look this example of John's
obviously the question that was asked to
me was about the humane part of the
United States which currently is a joke
and I don't even mean that as an insult
when the Green Party first started the
Green Party was a joke in general if you
have a small political party with no
money and no influence and no respect
etc of course when you start off you're
gonna be Joe now as it happens also the
particular people in that party are not
the most rational or easy to respect
they have some crackpot views that's
always a question how do you organize a
party so that the crackpots are not at
the center so they're at the fringes you
have a constitution that defines what
you're about but frankly even the type
of discourse I've been describing now
let's say in a magazine a magazine where
you're also putting that information on
the Internet let's say through YouTube
videos but you have edited articles with
standards even just by engaging in that
discourse you don't just win the respect
of your audience you raise the whole
moral tone within your party right again
something comments failed to do um when
you have that standard let's just say
the same standard vegan gains has where
he doesn't just rant about how eggs are
bad for you he actually digs up the
science and shows you this is why nobody
should eat eggs whatever use an example
and again this is not extremely high
standard this is an attainable standard
I do think that that in itself sets a
kind of bar we're okay so now the people
who believe in crazy conspiracy theories
about hiv/aids or the people who believe
in crazy conspiracy theories about some
vaccines or something they realize whoa
if we want to join this party we have to
live up these standards we have to
produce our own content that you know
will pass this editorial bar right um
the point is of course a new party
especially one that's powerless
moneyless etc of course when you start
off you're a joke
what is the path step by step to gaining
that respect to building that
constituency um it's not starting off by
running for the presidency it's not
that's the last step you know in so many
ways you could build a party you can
build a movement as I say with small
struggles for one prison for one power
plant for one sewage treatment scandal
and one article at a time one article
about eggs or milk or dairy or the
politics of veganism or the ethics of
how animals are hunted and killed in
Canada for the fur industry anything any
of these issues you can build
credibility this way running for the
president it's not going to be your your
first step at best it's going to seem
like a crass publicity stunt which in
many ways it is now in Canada if I were
involved the Green Party let's let's
keep it all the way and the Green Party
asked me to run for Prime Minister of
Canada where to run for office period
I'd think about it I think about it
seriously but again I would have exactly
this kind of critical view or I'd say
well what you're talking but really is
nothing but a publicity stunt because
you didn't build up you know that kind
of constituency that kind of credibility
and another thing to remember here oh
this so 12 minutes into this video I've
only been talking about domestic issues
and I've only really been talking about
ecological and ethical issues the other
problem was running for president states
or a similar position Prime Minister of
Canada Prime Minister of England is that
maybe sixty percent of the discourse
minimum 60 percent in spoke foreign
policy so the Green Party of Canada just
tore itself apart just disintegrated
debating what their position is on
Israel so the israel-palestine conflict
whatever you wanna say right nobody
outside of the Green Party of Canada
gives a [ __ ] what the Green Party of
Canada has to say but this rock off of
it it's neither good nor bad it's
spurious it's irrelevant right
but this is one of the fundamental ways
in which running for president nited
states or competing in federal politics
in canada is just very poorly matched
with veganism and ecology um some vegans
are going to be Zionists I'm not one I'm
not a Zionist um some vegans are going
to be pro-palestinian and I think the
vast majority are going to be lukewarm
on the issue or indifferent to it or
going to say why the hell are we
debating this at a conference that's
supposed to be a veganism in ecology
it's just they just don't want it on the
menu right so by choosing to put
yourself in a position by taking that
route by playing that lane you're going
to debate the Iraq war what do you think
do you think veganism has a unique and
powerful insight into the Iraq war I
don't into Isis into international trade
relations into currently the triangular
relationship between Australia India and
Japan very interesting in geopolitics
what what is Canada's role in that or
what is Donald Trump's position on the
strategic partnership between Australia
Japan and India that's real hard foreign
policy that's that's what political
science is made of well we don't want to
be internally divided over those issues
and we also don't want to sell ourselves
we don't want to present ourselves to
the public to our donors or in our
magazine if this before is described
amazing we don't want to take up pages
with that we don't want our the photo on
the cover of our magazine is not going
to be a woman holding a baby in Iraq
with bombs falling and the city on fire
that's a different magazine right I'm
not maybe I'd like to read that magazine
also i'm into politics what have you so
uh it's so many ways the approach of the
humane party is dead wrong now i haven't
even bothered here to critique the
particular ideas some of which are
crackpot they came out of the humane
party as you've already heard I mean you
know like I have experience across the
board right so I mean I have experience
with crazy communists a lot of just cry
z crazy left-wing extremists in Canadian
politics obviously the crazy right-wing
is probably even worse take your pick I
don't think that's special I don't think
it's unique I think there are very hard
questions you have to face up to
procedurally about how you're going to
effectively marginalize and silence
those people within your own party some
aspects of what political parties do or
democratic and some are not when I was
asked at a green party plenum so a
formal Democratic Green Party event and
I was talking about having this magazine
somebody asked me what's the difference
between a magazine and a message board
what because we already have a message
board the Green Party had a shitty
message board you know people just
posting whatever is on their mind you
know my answer was excellence editorial
process it's nothing democratic about
that right somebody has to decide either
yes this article is good enough to be
printed in the magazine no it's not or
this article could be good enough but we
need to improve it either we give it
back to the author and ask for revisions
or we ask for the author's permission to
have another author fact check it and
correct it make some changes that
doesn't happen in a message board in a
message board just like the comments
below this video on YouTube anyone can
write any garbage right so it's not
democratic one person is the editor and
one person is the author and another
person is the reader total inequality
but we can through those non-democratic
aspects we can raise the tenor and
quality and tone of the whole discourse
and we can prove to ourselves to our
membership to the outside world that we
you know we have credibility we have
currency we are current were up to date
we're not talking about something that
happened in 1975 we're not diagnosing to
happen in 1917 were not stuck on you
know the ghosts of the past were up to
date on
what's going on in ecological politics
or animal rights or any of these issues
in New Zealand in Europe around the
world and we know about cases again if
you're kicking Canadian we know about
this small town in Canada where there
was a disaster because the garbage dump
had a leak and toxic fluid from the
garbage dump got into the river we know
about that we care about that vote for
us donate to us give us your money and
you know again if you're in America it's
a small town in America if you're in
Australia it's well obviously you can
apply this Johnson where that's not easy
to deal with it's not easy to manage
because I've been talking about this
form of basically facing up to the
elitist aspects of how those
institutions run but what if the person
who's the editor of the magazine is
themselves a crackpot what if the person
freelee the banana girl just one bad
person gets into that position and you
can't replace them quickly and your
whole movement is destroyed and you
don't have control over it because
democratically the donors money has to
go to that institution that is you can't
just close down the magazine to start a
new one that happens a lot in politics
right okay so that's it man that's
enough for this video 18 minutes solid
brass tacks politics I got to get back
to eating these strawberries um yeah
when I look at the humane party I think
they have it 180 degrees the wrong way
around and they're repeating a lot of
the mistakes that the green party made
its early days a lot of small party
movements make those mistakes I do think
that in general conservatives have a
huge advantage over communists to be
blunt over the far left simply because
conservatives are very much influenced
by the way churches are organized a
typical american protestant church knows
how to fasten onto a specific issue like
that whether it's the garbage dump or
the prison or the school and they know
how to have a picnic and a fundraiser
and have people come to a lecture and
they have people singing at the lecture
you know it's not too boring they have
the choir or whatever they have someone
with a guitar they know how to make that
stuff happened they know how to build
constituency
in a community they know how to build
credibility they know how to test how
much trust they've got they know how to
collect donations but not to abuse that
trust there's actually a lot shall we
say schematically that the right wing
learns from how small churches operate
so real time with small protestant
churches not the catholic church on a
centralized organization like the
catholic church picnics and fundraisers
and going out and shaking people's hands
look at them in the eye all that stuff
in many ways the right wing tends to
have a very useful political education
provided to them by their religious
foundations and the left wing isn't just
lacking that they tend to be in many
ways echoing old myths that were set up
by communists and you know socialists on
the extreme left that all you need to do
is stand up with a megaphone and shout
something shrill and extreme enough and
the working man is supposed to rise up
and follow you just because you're right
and you say you're right and neither of
those are democratic paradigms for
politics churches are not democratic
labour unions are not democratic but you
know communist revolutionaries are not
democratic but I do think it's much
easier to adapt the institutional
attitudes that people have from the
church picnic to small party politics to
ecological politics the vegan poke
that's much easier to adapt one to the
other in useful way than it is to adapt
the attitudes you encounter on the far
left wing hit me up